On election day last month, the price of a bitcoin closed just below 70,000 US dollars. Respectable. But now, with Donald Trump heading back to the White House, the price has soared. And this week, it started trading for the first time above $100,000. So, Nikou, let’s start with you. Bitcoin reached this major milestone on Wednesday. It hit $100,000. What was happening in Trump world on Wednesday that led to that big spike? I think the main impetus for this has been the fact that Trump nominated Paul Atkins to be the new head of the SEC, much to the delight of almost everyone in crypto, because frankly, he could have named anyone other than Gary Gensler and they’d have been delighted. But Paul Atkins is pretty pro crypto. He’s said some nice things about the industry and has thoughts on what he wants to do and what he thinks could be done better, which is sort of music to the ears of everyone in crypto. So that has really helped push the price up to the six-figure levels. Now, before we talk about Trump’s approach to crypto and what Paul Atkins means for that, Stefania, I wanna ask you, how has the Biden administration and the current SEC chair Gary Gensler that crypto enthusiasts were so happy to see on his way out. How have they approached crypto? I have to say Gary Gensler, the current chair of the Securities and Exchange Commission, has really become sort of enemy number one for crypto world from the very beginning. He was very clear that he was going to always brand this sector as a Wild West, sort of rife with fraud and risks for investors, misconduct of all kinds. But what really then irked the crypto players further is the fact that he has always refused to craft regulation for digital assets while claiming that current existing securities law is sufficiently clear for them to basically follow the rules that everyone in the market follows. And what instead happened was that he really cracked down from an enforcement point of view. And the big pushback from the crypto market was the sort of refrain of your regulating by enforcement. And they just were absolutely not happy with that. I mean, Stefania said that he was going to be number one, and I think you can’t overstate how much key crypto investors, executives hated Gary Gensler and still do. I mean, when he said he would resign, I think it was Jesse Powell, the co-founder of Kraken, one of the biggest US crypto exchanges, wrote on Twitter or X: ‘You’re a clown and a treasonous terrorist’, which I think is just outrageous. Yeah so let’s turn back to the Trump administration. How did Trump talk about crypto on the campaign trail? I mean, what kind of promises did he make to the industry? Lots and lots and lots and lots. I mean, he said all sorts of things from wanting to create a bitcoin strategic reserve fund, which would be a huge thing to do. He also like, mid campaign, helped launch and promote a crypto company backed by his sons and Steve Wyckoff who is his friend and real estate investor and now also has been appointed to be the US Middle East envoy. So it’s just this whole mesh of Trump’s like personal and political and crypto objectives. And the crypto industry is delighted that he’s coming out and saying all these wonderful things about how he wants all of the rest of bitcoin to be mined in the US. And he wants it all to be sort of made in America. And just this idea of promoting the US crypto industry has really set everyone ablaze. On day one, I will fire Gary Gensler. I didn’t know he was that unpopular. And I think from a regulatory standpoint, probably the crypto space is also happy to hear that sort of Trump hinted at the fact that he is even considering putting together a council to think about putting together regulation for crypto. And again, that would be a big move from what Gensler’s done so far. All right. Theme of this podcast is crypto people hate Gary Gensler (laughs). Well, Nikou, you know, you speak to lots of crypto executives as part of your job. When they go to sleep at night and dream about it. Donald Trump led crypto utopia. A cryptopia maybe. What does that look like? What’s their ideal policy and regulatory environment? Yeah, I mean, I think number one, absolute top of the list is getting Gensler out, which is already been done. But with that comes this idea of, you know, under the SEC, they launched lawsuits against Coinbase, Kraken, crypto.com almost — you name a US crypto company and they are in a lawsuit with the SEC. And after firing Gary Gensler, the aim is for all these lawsuits and this what they call regulation by enforcement to end. And as well as that, then there comes demands for various types of regulation that would allow banks to bank crypto companies, which is something they found really difficult, which would also allow banks and asset managers to hold crypto on their balance sheets in a way that that would be easier for them. The ultimate aim really is to bring crypto sort of out of the edges and to bring it into the mainstream. I guess I’m curious if we do get to a place under a second Trump administration where crypto does become more mainstream, does become actually part of our financial system, like you were just talking about, Nikou. What does that do to the US financial system. Like how does that impact banks? How does that impact consumers? I know it’s kind of a big question, but from what you can tell, what would be the impact of that? I mean, there are a lot of worries that if crypto becomes more enmeshed with, you know, traditional finance as we know it, the if and when there is a crash in the price of bitcoin and the price of all these other tokens, it will be much more devastating than the crypto winters of past because in 2022, you know, when it collapsed and the price of bitcoin plunged, most of the people that were hurt by that were just ordinary retail investors trading on their phones, on apps on their phones. But this time around, there are a lot of people that are worried that if the likes of BlackRock and other big banks and asset managers are more involved, that collapse will be more devastating. I mean, it’s a pretty far scenario from where we are now, but I think that is like the ultimate worry. And I agree. And also to back Gensler a little bit on in this sort of discourse, I mean, it’s — he had very harsh words for the sector for sure. But you didn’t come up with that out of thin air. There obviously has been a history of fraud. Not to say that the entire sector is like this, but it is true that it is a new industry. We still don’t even quite know where the risks lie. So I agree with Nikou. That would raise a whole other host of questions, which I think Gensler was also worried about. How do you think Atkin’s, you know, if he is confirmed by the Senate, his SEC would handle some of those concerns. Do we have an idea? He has been sort of pointing to the fact that he would be more open potentially to the idea of crafting rules. I mean, he was telling a podcast last year about how the SEC should have its ear to the ground and try to understand how the market is working, because he could see sort of good potential for investors, potential to challenge incumbents. Also potential for capital formation, which is a theme he has always come back to over the years in terms of what constitutes a key role for the SEC. So I can see there being a world where he’s far more open to putting together a set of rules. I think on actions. It’s also worth pointing out that he is pretty enmeshed in the crypto industry. I mean, he sits on the advisory board of the digital chamber, which is this blockchain crypto trade group, and also he’s an adviser to Securitize, which is a big blockchain tokenisation company. So his views just in terms of advising these companies, understanding them as views on crypto, are markedly different to Gensler as well. Sonja Hutson So I want to go back to Trump for a minute. How do crypto enthusiasts fit into the electoral coalition that Trump has assembled? Like, how does the industry fit into his ethos and worldview? I mean, I think he’s historically been attracted to very individuals in business that he sees as powerful with weights, cutting edge. And I think there is a reason why a lot of these big tech players or VC players who are enmeshed in the crypto world are in turn so enmeshed in the Trump world. It definitely matches, I think, also the ethos of just let us kind of do our thing, let us develop this idea. We don’t want so much government oversights. So I think even philosophically from like zooming out a little bit, it’s quite in line, I think, with Trump thinking. Yeah, I mean, that’s like the philosophy the crypto was born in, right? It was this idea of we don’t want governments and banks to track us and trace us and we’re going to do all our transactions on the blockchain and that sort of freedom and power to the people. But there is so much irony in the fact that now, like as we’re talking about the price of bitcoin hitting over 100 grand, the celebration and the reason for this is because arguably the biggest institution in the world, which is the White House, is accepting crypto. And so it’s really moved away from this idea of anti-establishment anti-institution and instead it’s celebrating the biggest institution there is. So I just think that’s sort of fun little irony perhaps, in this whole story. Does that make bitcoin less attractive, less kind of sexy in the way that it was before? I think so. I think totally. I mean, if you’re holding bitcoin in the early 2010s because you thought this was going to be the future of finance and we’re going to upend Wall Street, that idea has all but disappeared. And now you’re holding bitcoin because it’s like, well, I’m making so much money. So it’s yeah, I think it’s completely different now. Yeah yeah. So we mentioned before the crypto booms and busts that we’ve seen, you know, from November 2021 to November 2022, for example, bitcoin’s value plunged like 75 per cent. Do you think with Donald Trump in the White House, this boom will be different and we won’t see a bust? Or are we just going to kind of have Groundhog’s Day on this? I think at the moment there’s almost nothing negative for crypto, especially in the US, right? Like they’ve got on paper at least everything that they wanted. You know, pro crypto president, a relatively pro crypto head of the SEC. It’s yet to be seen what rules and what shape the regulations that he comes out with. But it’s all glory days at the moment. Like I don’t see why or what would spur the price of bitcoin to plunge like those levels unless there is an FTX-scale type collapse. At the moment everything seems pretty rosy, which I think is often quite a scary place to be in markets.