Bitcoin breaks $100,000, boosted by Trump’s crypto embrace and Powell’s remarks Bitcoin’s remarkable comeback two years after the implosion of FTX is helped along by Wall Street bets on its future Bitcoin rose above $100,000 on Wednesday night, a milestone that many crypto bulls had been anticipating for months, if not years — underscoring a remarkable comeback for the industry following the collapse of several key players in 2022. The world’s largest cryptocurrency BTCUSD -0.80% was up 2.7% at $101,590 late Thursday morning. Bitcoin at one point Wednesday night was up more than 5%, peaking at $103,853 for a gain of more than 520% from its cycle low at below $16,000 in November 2022, in the wake of the implosion of crypto exchange FTX. Bitcoin is up more than 140% year to date, according to CoinDesk data. The move came after President-elect Donald Trump earlier Wednesday said he would nominate Paul Atkins to lead the Securities and Exchange Commission. Atkins is seen as friendly to the crypto industry. Atkins would replace current SEC Chair Gary Gensler, whose stance on crypto has been viewed as “hostile” by many industry participants, even though his term at the helm of the SEC ushered in more ways for the broader public to invest in crypto assets in a regulated format. Under Gensler, however, the agency also brought legal actions against several digital-asset companies. Expectations for a retooled SEC under the Trump administration have ignited optimism over a potentially more friendly regulatory backdrop for the digital-asset industry. Market watchers also tied gains to remarks by Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell at the New York Times Dealbook Summit on Wednesday. Powell said he saw bitcoin not as a rival to the U.S. dollar, but to gold. “It’s just like gold, only it’s virtual. It’s digital. People are not using it as a form of payment or a store of value. It’s highly volatile,” he said. Powell’s comparison of bitcoin to gold is a significant development “as it introduces another level of credibility to bitcoin as a major asset in global markets,” Joel Kruger, market strategist at LMAX Group, said in emailed comments. “The fact that gold is still about 10 times larger than bitcoin should offer additional insight into how much more room there is for bitcoin to grow from current levels.” Bitcoin saw increased mainstream adoption this year after the SEC in January greenlighted a series of exchange-traded funds that invest directly in the cryptocurrency. The new crypto offerings helped broaden its potential base of investors and brought the likes of BlackRock Inc. BLK -0.18% and other major global asset managers into the fold. The digital currency had its share of violent swings along the way to its $100,000 perch, a reminder of how quickly investor enthusiasm for crypto can turn into regret. Bitcoin investors have been treated to stunning gains and losses in recent years. As giddy as many crypto enthusiasts have been about bitcoin’s charge higher, there also have been concerns about the sustainability of the rally. Read: As bitcoin nears $100,000, investors ask whether the rally can last much longer The price of bitcoin most recently got a boost in early November, after Trump won a second term in the White House. Trump was viewed as a crypto-friendly presidential candidate, with his promises to build a bitcoin reserve and to make all bitcoin “mined, minted and made in the U.S.” Bitcoin’s rise above $100,000 could have a significant impact on its future price appreciation, according to Peter Chung, head of research at algorithm trading firm Presto. “Human beings have a decimal fixation — because we count things in tens and hundreds and thousands,” Chung said in a phone interview. “As bitcoin crosses $100,000, I think the attention from the public will spike significantly. There’s going to be a lot of media coverage. And I think that’s something that’s going to help bitcoin grow.” Federico Brokate, head of U.S. business at crypto asset manager 21 Shares, said “the $100,000 mark in a lot of people’s heads is the sign of legitimacy or maturing of this asset class.” Still, the driving factors behind the price increase matter more to the industry, Brokate said, adding that industry participants expect crypto to see increased adoption if the regulatory environment becomes more positive.