What Does Bitcoin's Price Explosion Mean for Crypto in 2025? Bitcoin hits $100,000, thanks in part to Donald Trump's re-election. But there are other contributing factors that have led the crypto resurgence, according to industry experts. The price of Bitcoin has continued to soar since Donald Trump won re-election on Nov. 5. Its price rose from roughly $73,000 on Election Day to over $98,000 by Nov. 27, according to CoinGecko data. Then, on Dec. 5, it hit a new all-time high of $103,000, surpassing the $100,000 mark that may have once been seen as a point of resistance. Cryptocurrency prices are notoriously volatile. But the larger a coin's market cap, the more money it takes to spike or dump its price. Bitcoin is the largest cryptocurrency by market cap and the oldest, and its price movements can influence the rest of the crypto market. "When new inflows come in to crypto, the most obvious place for them to go is BTC," says Chris Akhavan, chief revenue officer at crypto platform Magic Eden. "This cycle is likely to even be more skewed towards BTC given some of the tailwinds like speculation that the US will build up a BTC reserve." David Duong, head of institutional research at Coinbase, tells PCMag via email that Bitcoin surpassing $90,000 was due to a combination of a favorable broader market and US government changes that may trigger "a potentially massive shift." A Coinbase rep emphasizes, however, that such government changes don't necessarily refer to Trump or would come from Trump specifically (even though he is the President-elect). "The US approval of spot BTC and ETH ETFs were the major milestones, of course. But also, the implementation of Europe's MiCA regulation, the House approval of FIT21 in May, and BlackRock’s tokenized BUIDL fund were all significant developments. These advancements were particularly impressive considering that only a year ago, the asset class was reeling from interest rate hikes and regulatory crackdowns," Duong says. The crypto industry has been accused of "buying" or winning the election for Trump. Coinbase spent over $50 million on political donations this election cycle, and its CEO reportedly met with the President-elect last month. But Coinbase denies its CEO Brian Armstrong openly supports Trump. James Slusser, head ambassador for the Polkadot blockchain and founder of crypto consulting firm Kurkuma, tells PCMag that the Bitcoin's price is spiking because investors feel more confident given Trump's win and the approval of Bitcoin ETFs. They now believe US regulation will favor them. "Bitcoin’s price is shaped by a dynamic interplay of factors, including market sentiment, regulatory developments, and broader macroeconomic conditions," Slusser says, adding: "While the current momentum appears promising, the cryptocurrency market remains inherently volatile, with prices subject to rapid fluctuations." Slusser urges investors to "approach the market with caution, keeping a close eye on evolving trends and maintaining a well-considered strategy to navigate this high-risk, high-reward environment." Trump has embraced the broader crypto industry in the past few years, from launching his own NFTs to appearing at this year's Bitcoin Conference and making friends with crypto supporters like Tesla CEO Elon Musk, who has been tapped to run a "Department of Government Efficiency," or DOGE. This acronym is also the name of the meme coin Musk once touted on Saturday Night Live in 2021 before the crypto market crashed in large part due to the failure of now-jailed Sam Bankman-Fried's FTX exchange months later. Trump has also made a lot of crypto promises. In July, he said the US government would supposedly never sell off any of its current Bitcoin holdings, which it has obtained over the years by seizing it from cybercriminals. Hackers and scammers often prefer using crypto and targeting crypto users because blockchain transactions can't be reversed, and identities can be difficult to trace if certain platforms or anonymizing mixing services are used. Trump also said he would fire US Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Gary Gensler, a known crypto critic. A president does not have the power to fire the SEC chair, but Gensler beat Trump to the punch and has announced he will resign. This week, Trump selected pro-crypto lobbyist and former SEC commissioner Paul Aktins to replace Gensler come January, which is more good news for the crypto industry. Trump also supports Bitcoin mining and wants the rest of it to be done in America, claiming back in June that "Biden’s hatred of Bitcoin only helps China, Russia, and the Radical Communist Left." The Biden administration has not stated its crypto stance outright, but Axios suggested earlier this month that Biden's polices overall were designed to hinder crypto's advancement.