The price of bitcoin has risen above $100,000 for the first time as investors hope that Donald Trump’s administration will bring cryptocurrencies into mainstream financial markets. The world’s most popular cryptocurrency rose as high as $103,335 on Thursday and the US president-elect has taken credit. “Congratulations bitcoiners!!! $100,000!!! You’re welcome!!! Together, we will Make America Great Again!” Trump told social media followers on Truth Social, Bitcoin has more than doubled in value this year and has risen more than 50 per cent since Trump won the presidential race. Trump, previously a cryptosceptic, pledged during his campaign to make the United States the “crypto capital of the planet” and create a “strategic reserve” of bitcoin. His campaign accepted donations in cryptocurrency and he courted crypto fans at a bitcoin conference in July. He also started World Liberty Financial, a venture with family members to trade cryptocurrencies, and said he would form a crypto advisory council. Crypto industry executives are betting that he will be able to push through legislative and regulatory changes. He had promised that in the event of an election victory he would remove Gary Gensler, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), who has been leading the government’s clampdown on the crypto industry. • Cryptocurrency is booming once more. Brace for the rollercoaster Gensler said after Trump’s victory that he would step down on the day Trump takes the oath of office on Capitol Hill in January. On Wednesday, Trump nominated crypto advocate Paul Atkins to replace him. Atkins, a former SEC commissioner, has been involved in crypto policy as co-chairman of the Token Alliance, which works to “develop best practices for digital asset issuances and trading platforms” and the Chamber of Digital Commerce. ADVERTISEMENT “We’re witnessing a paradigm shift,” said Mike Novogratz, founder and chief executive of the US cryptocurrency company Galaxy Digital. “Bitcoin and the entire digital asset ecosystem are on the brink of entering the financial mainstream. This momentum is fuelled by institutional adoption, advancements in tokenisation and payments and a clearer regulatory path.” Bitcoin was worth almost nothing when it was created in 2008 as strings of computer code which have no physical form. The notoriously volatile digital currency was developed by Satoshi Nakamoto, supposedly a secretive software developer whose true identity has never been uncovered. Geoff Kendrick, global head of digital assets research at Standard Chartered, told Reuters: “At the end of the day, it’s just a number … but the reality is we’ve been able to get to this level because the industry has become institutionalised this year. Roughly 3 per cent of the total supply of bitcoins that will ever exist have been purchased in 2024 by institutional money.” This year bitcoin exchange-traded funds (ETF) have been launched by BlackRock and Fidelity, some of the biggest money managers in the world. They are not yet available in the UK. ADVERTISEMENT Crypto-related stocks have soared along with the bitcoin price. Shares in Coinbase Global, the largest cryptocurrency exchange in the US, have risen around 77 per cent to $344 since the election on November 5. Shares in MicroStrategy, a software firm which has repeatedly raised funds to buy bitcoin, has gained 88 per cent to $429. Critics worry about the use of cryptocurrencies to fund crimes around the world. The US and UK announced on Wednesday they had disrupted what they described as a global money-laundering ring which used cryptocurrency to help rich Russians to evade sanctions and to launder cash for drug traffickers. Some investors are sceptical about whether cryptocurrencies including Bitcoin can be adopted more broadly in the financial system. Shane Oliver, chief economist and head of investment strategy at AMP, the Australian financial services firm, said: “As time goes by it’s proving itself as part of the financial landscape.” However, he said it is “very hard to value”. He added: “It’s anyone’s guess. But it does have a momentum aspect to it and at the moment the momentum is up.” UK’s caution on crypto is stark contrast to America Donald Trump’s full-throated embrace of crypto stands in sharp contrast to the UK authorities, which have moved cautiously and sometimes reluctantly to authorise any trading in digital tokens (Patrick Hosking writes). The Financial Conduct Authority continues to warn people to be prepared to lose all their money if they buy bitcoin and other digital currencies, and last month set out a “road map” that only envisages authorised exchanges being fully able to deal in crypto for professional investors from 2026. That timetable, according to Mike Ringer, a financial services partner at City lawyers CMS, is “incredibly disappointing for the industry.” He points out that the Treasury last year wanted phase 2 secondary legislation for stablecoins — crypto currencies underpinned by conventional currencies — to be laid in 2024. That has now been deferred until 2026, he said. “This is a massive delay.” Trump’s naming of Paul Atkins, a longstanding cheerleader for crypto, as the next head of the Securities & Exchange Commission has raised speculation of an acceleration in the liberalisation of the rules on crypto. The US is already seen as years ahead of Britain, last year allowing the launch of easily traded crypto-backed funds, which has triggered fund launches by big names such as BlackRock and Fidelity Investments. Regulators remain concerned that crypto could not only be a bubble that bursts violently but is also used as a payment method by gangsters, money launderers and tax evaders. Charles Randell, who chaired the FCA until May 2022, has likened trading in crypto to “digital roulette”. He was concerned that any move to regulate the sector would give people false reassurance. Seven million people in Britain now own digital currencies, according to the FCA, usually through offshore exchanges not authorised in the UK, such as Coinbase and Binance.